
George, I wish you’d look at the nursery
What’s wrong with it?
“I don’t know.”
“Well, then.”
“I just want you to look at it, is all, or call a psychologist in to look at it.”
“What would a psychologist want with a nursery?”
“You know very well what he’d want.” His wife was standing in the middle of the kitchen watching
the stove busy humming to itself, making supper for four.
“It’s just that it is different now than it was.”
“All right, let’s have a look.”
They walked down the hall of their HappyLife Home, which had cost them thirty thousand dollars
with everything included. This house which clothed and fed and rocked them to sleep and played
and sang and was good to them. Their approach was sensed by a hidden switch and the nursery light
turned on when they came within ten feet of it. Similarly, behind them, in the halls, lights went on
and off automatically as they left them behind.
“Well,” said George Hadley. They stood on the grass-like floor of the nursery. It was forty feet
across by forty feet long and thirty feet high; it had cost half again as much as the rest of the house.
“But nothing’s too good for our children,” George had said.
The room was silent and empty. The walls were white and two dimensional. Now, as George and
Lydia Hadley stood in the center of the room, the walls made a quiet noise and seemed to fall away
into the distance. Soon an African veldt appeared, in three dimensions, on all sides, in color. It
looked real to the smallest stone and bit of yellow summer grass. The ceiling above them became a
deep sky with a hot yellow sun.
George Hadley started to sweat from the heat. “Let’s get out of this sun,” he said. “This is a little
too real. But I don’t see anything wrong.”
“Wait a moment, you’ll see,” said his wife.
Now hidden machines were beginning to blow a wind containing prepared smells toward the two
people in the middle of the baked veldt. The hot straw smell of lion grass, the cool green smell of
the hidden water hole, the strong dried blood smell of the animals, the smell of dust like red pepper
in the hot air. And now the sounds: the thump of distant antelope feet on soft grassy ground, the
papery rustle of vultures. A shadow passed through the sky. George Hadley looked up, and as he
watched the shadow moved across his sweating face. “Horrible creatures,” he heard his wife say.
“The vultures.”
“You see, there are the lions, far over, that way. Now they’re on their way to the water hole.
They’ve just been eating,” said Lydia. “I don’t know what.”
“Some animal.” George Hadley put his hand above his eyes to block off the burning light and
looked carefully. “A zebra or a baby giraffe, maybe.”
“Are you sure?” His wife sounded strangely nervous.
“No, it’s a little late to be sure,” he said, with a laugh. “Nothing over there I can see but cleaned
bone, and the vultures dropping for what’s left.”
“Did you hear that scream?” she asked.
“No.”
“About a minute ago?”
“Sorry, no.”
The lions were coming. And again George Hadley was filled with respect for the brilliant mind that
had come up with the idea for this room. A wonder of efficiency selling for an unbelievably low
price. Every home should have one. Oh, occasionally they frightened you with their realism, they
made you jump, gave you a scare. But most of the time they were fun for everyone. Not only your
own son and daughter, but for yourself when you felt like a quick trip to a foreign land, a quick
change of scenery. Well, here it was!
And here were the lions now, fifteen feet away. They looked so real, so powerful and shockingly
real, that you could feel the hairs stand up on the back of your neck. Your mouth was filled with the
dusty smell of their heated fur. The yellow of the lions and the summer grass was in your eyes like a
picture in an expensive French wall hanging. And there was the sound of the lions quick, heavy
breaths in the silent mid-day sun, and the smell of meat from their dripping mouths.
The lions stood looking at George and Lydia Hadley with terrible green-yellow eyes. “Watch out!”
screamed Lydia.
The lions came running at them. Lydia turned suddenly and ran. Without thinking, George ran after
her. Outside in the hall, after they had closed the door quickly and noisily behind them, he was
laughing and she was crying. And they both stood shocked at the other’s reaction.
“George!”
“Lydia! Oh, my dear poor sweet Lydia!”
“They almost got us!”
“Walls, Lydia, remember; glass walls, that’s all they are. Oh, they look real, I must admit – Africa in
your living room. But it’s all created from three dimensional color film behind glass screens. And
the machines that deliver the smells and sounds to go with the scenery. Here’s my handkerchief.”
“I’m afraid.” She came to him and put her body against him and cried as he held her. “Did you see?
Did you feel? It’s too real.”
Now, Lydia…
You’ve got to tell Wendy and Peter not to read any